---
layout:     post
title:      Health Insurance Scam Call
date:       Tue, 24 Jan 2017 20:20:32 -0500
---
Today's reminder about information security comes courtesy of recent political
hot-topics and the good ol' fashioned telephone scam.  I recently received a
call from a number I didn't recognize.  Being a bit foolish, and also expecting
some follow-up calls regarding business conducted earlier in the day, I answered
it.

An artificial male voice began explaining to me that "according to [their]
records" I had no health insurance, but I might qualify for free insurance from
the "federal government" and that the process of determining my qualification
would take "two minutes."  At that point I hung up.  There was a distinct lack
of proper nouns (such as the calling party's name or organization, not to
mention the subtle avoidance of stating _which_ federal government), and my
health insurance is well in hand.  But did I mention this phone call arrived on
a Saturday?

Yeah.  The day after Donald Trump was inaugurated as president of the United
States.  The very political party which has set its sights on dismantling the
health insurance options provided by the Affordable Care Act.  These scumbag
scammers wasted no time, did they?  With political feelings running high and
allegations of falsehood from every quarter, it's easy to see someone falling
victim to a phone call like this.

So, remain vigilant as ever.  And if you live in the United States, I urge you
to report any such scam attempts to the [FCC][] via their website.  The
complaint form takes just a few minutes to fill out, and is rather
comprehensive.  Forget politics for a minute, let's tear down some robo-call
scammers!

[FCC]: https://www.fcc.gov "FCC website"
